---
layout: post
title: Blogging in General
tags: [blogging, general]
---

When I started this blog, I made a pact with myself that I will write atleast one post a month, at which I have failed very badly. The "last post":/2011/02/27/World-Cup-Match-India-Vs-England/ was before India even won the world cup and this one comes after they have been trodden over by England. But cricket apart, this post is about some of the resolutions I have made or rather, thought about. Maybe if I'll make them public, I could stick to them.

So here we go:

* Write a blog post every fortnight. I really think I can do it, even if it is very basic and something remotely related to programming, I will do it.
* Take up a good open source programming project and just try to understand the code. Suggestions are welcome. I am assuming it has to be done at least once every three months.
* Take up a small project of my own and finish it! I mean .finish it. finish it not just .uhmmm, ok its finished. finish it. I have lot of my projects in limbo right now. Yes, this limbo is exactly what they talk about in Inception, long lasting dream state which goes on for years and yet never seems to end.
* Never ever post a sentimental status on facebook. That is lame! I know, but sometimes I really have to do a lot to stop myself from doing that. Nobody cares if you liked that damsel for ages and now she said no, people are information hungry not rant hungry and almost everyone has  a story that mirrors yours, so shut up! Mine isn.t that dramatic, oh well, shut it.
* Learn something amazing. I am keeping this vague on purpose.

Thats it, I have done it and the time starts nowwwwww. Goooo!
