---
layout: post
title: Turning 25
tags: [general, non-technical]
---

So this is how it feels to be 25. It is not a bad feeling considering it is not at all different from how I have felt for last 15 birthdays. Just to be clear, I don’t remember my first 10 birthdays. I guess that is not such a bad thing considering I don’t remember them.

I thought 25 sounds like a important number (no idea why...do you?), so why not do a self-assessment. It is long overdue and it might help me get my shit together. The basic format of this is going to be *Self-deprecation* and then countering it with *More self-deprecation*, ending with some sort of *Blame Game* or convoluted justification on my part.

You should know that counting these things on your fingers and putting them out to the world is entirely different thing. So playing safe, I’ll just say I am just another guys with all the flaws possible. Lets start reviewing, shall we? I am just going to pick on whatever comes to my mind and in no particular order and this is certainly not ordered by their importance.

h2. Studies

I haven’t done bad in studies. I had my ass handed over to me by smarter people than me almost every time and it has definitely kept me grounded. I mean cummon, who can compete against mega brain super thinking ninjas. I met this guy who played Fifa all the time and completed the maths homework in hour and half and also nailed all the tests. In comparison, when we normal people did finish it, it took us atleast a day and our test marks were always thanking Aryabhata for inventing zero. Don't jump on insult bandwagon right away, this was IIT prep we just talked about so hold your horses.

h2. Sports

I have been all over the place here. There were bad times and there were good times. There was this taboo race in grade 5 where I came last and those random falls in soccer field. They never made me feel good and my friends made sure I never forgot them. Good on you guys. But I have had my days in cricket field, even though it made my anger management issues pretty renowned. *Self note*, try not smashing your own head into a freakin tree next time you get angry; literally.

h2. Social Life

I always have had the best of people around of me, each one of which have been very liberal toward my eccentricities. I am very bad with phones and rarely keep in touch, except for on internet. Maybe this exception has something to do with my love for all things programming. So I'll take this opportunity to thank all of my friends and family for who they are and for sticking around and appologize to the ones towards whom I have been rude, misbehaving, bossy, unattendant and downright inconsiderate.

h2. Love Life

Lets just say it has been been programming equivalent of exception handling. Lots of *Try and Catch* statements. If you don't know what that means, it's a good thing. If you do want to know what that is, it is not much of a hard work but does need some brave attitude to start looking. Thats all for the public domain, I certainly don't want to be on the wrong end of a very lengthy lecturous ( is that even a word? ) call from my family. Wrong choice girls, which by the way you totally nailed.

h2. Personal Development

I haven't become a great man and that wasn't on cards either. I don't even expect me to become one in coming years. Somebody lot smarter than me once said that *Secret to happy life is lowering your expectations*. Aim was always to become someone my parents will be proud of. It is a constant effort but doesn't require much and the one I don't mind a single bit. Who wants to be great, just imagine living up to a freakin Constitution. After seeing "Smallville":smallville, I never-ever want to be Superman; the guy is more trapped than a "monkey in a jar of peanuts":peanutstory.

h2. Career

Having always been fascinated with all the flying things, I wanted to be an aeronautical engineer. News is I am not an engineer but I do love computers too and I am a programmer, sort of, kind of. I know I can be better, but my attention span is absolutely killing me. I am sure some people take more time to eat a cheese burger than me sticking with something. Not my mistake, there are so many good things happening in the programming world each more exciting than the other. I have to learn 'em all...or atleast skim.

h2. Conclusion?

This is a pretty big essay I have written and I do hope reading it won't give you any more information then you already have about me and I have successfully wasted your time. *If*, like me, you came here for a conclusion, I don't have one. I don't even think it matters. Life is not a race against time or each other, it is just what you get to do and whom you get to do it with. Maybe I am saying this coz I suck at running fast *:P*. Jokes apart, I have seen people leaving forever and all the things I wish I had done while they were here. Look around you and take a leap. I am just thankful to be 25, not afraid of dying, just afraid of disappointing people who matter to me and being left alone. That day is not today. It's just another day.

[smallville]http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smallville
[peanutstory]http://www.english-for-students.com/The-Monkey-and-The-Juggler.html
